=head1 NAME

Dist::Template - CORIONs distribution template

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This directory is a template for a fresh or existing distribution of Perl code
ready-made for CPAN.

The main idea is that C<Makefile.PL> is the main source of truth for the
distribution. From this source of truth, the following information gets derived:

=over 4

=item *

C<META.json>, C<META.yml>

=back

The approach follows the idea that you have one "main" file in your
distribution. From that main file the following information is extracted:

=over 4

=item Distribution version number

=item README.* contents

=back

=head1 USAGE

The C<Makefile.PL> is dual-purpose. One use is to maintain documentation
extracts for Github and CPAN during development. The second use is to install
the module at installation time.

=head1 SETUP STEPS

=over 4

=item 1

Initialize C<git> (or whatever) version control in your distribution directory

=item 2

Copy the contents of the C<template/> directory into your new (or existing)
distribution

  cp -rp ../Dist-Template/template/. .

=item 3

Edit C<Makefile.PL> to list all prerequisites.

=item 4

Edit C<MANIFEST.SKIP> to exclude stuff you don't want.

=item 5

Generate C<README.md> for Github.

    perl Makefile.PL

This will blindly overwrite your existing C<README.md>. This is why
you committed everything to version control before.

=item 6

Check that the author tests pass, or make them pass:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    prove -bl xt/

=item 7

Add all files to version control

=back

=head1 RELEASE STEPS

=over 4

=item 1

Bump the version

    perl-reversion -bump

=item 2

Update the meta-files

    perl ../Dist-Template/tools/update-meta.pl

=item 3

Add release date to C<Changes>. The release date must be formatted like this:

  YYYY-MM-DD 0.01

=item 4

(Re)run the author tests

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    prove -bl xt/

=item 5

Commit everything

=item 6

Release using L<Module::Release> and L<CPAN::Uploader>

=back

=head1 FILES AND THEIR USE

The distribution is based on L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker>, so most of the files
are relevant for L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker>.

=over 4

=item C<.appveyor.yml>

A rough template to test a plain Perl distribution on Appveyor. The distribution
still needs to be enabled for testing on Appveyor.

=item C<.gitignore>

As I use C<git> for version control, this file is a template of files that
do not need to go under version control. I'm a firm believer in the approach
that everything should be under version control, even files that are completely
derived from other files. This is why C<META.*> is not excluded here.

=item C<.travis.yml>

A rough template to test a plain Perl distribution on Travis CI. The
distribution still needs to be enabled for testing on Travis CI.

=item C<Changes>

List of changes between versions.

=item C<LICENSE>

A copy of the Artistic License 2, because I release most of my code under it.

=item C<Makefile.PL>

The heart of maintaining a distribution.

=item C<MANIFEST.SKIP>

List of regexps excluding items from the distribution on CPAN.

=item C<README.*>

Various incarnations of information extracted from the main file of the
distribution.

=item C<t/>

The module test suite lives in here.

=item C<tools/>

A directory keeping maintenance tools. You can always delete this.

=item C<xt/>

Author tests. Run these with

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    prove -bl xt/

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<Module::Starter>

This creates filled-out templates, but is mainly geared towards starting fresh
instead of upgrading any existing directory to a CPAN distribution.

=back

=cut
